## Clean City App

India is turning into one big garbage dump. The problem is assuming gigantic proportions and the numbers are staggering. Urban India is the world’s 3rd largest garbage generator and by 2050 waste is expected to rise to 436 million tons up. Let’s take plastic waste as an example. A Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) report (2018-19) puts the total annual plastic waste generation in India at a humongous 3.3 million metric tons per year. A global material balance study on plastics points out that 79 per cent of the total plastics produced in the world enters our environment as waste. Only 9 per cent of the total plastic waste in the world is recycled. All together, the amount of waste generated affects the environment in multiple ways: its contribution to the worsening climate crisis, its negative impact on wildlife and the natural environment, and its detriment to our very own public health. 

In Clean City Application, Users can upload photographs of garbage deposits and register a complaint with address details of the dumping site. They can also provide their contact details so that the application can update them about the status of their complaint. The complaints will be reviewed by the admin and appropriate action will be taken. Users will be provided with an incident number with the help of which they can check the status of their complaint. Also an email confirmation will be sent to the user as soon as the complaint gets registered. Admin enters its credentials to access the data of the incidents reported. Admin can filter the registered complaints using pin code of the dumping site reported and/or with the date of incident being reported. Admin can click on each of the incidents to get detailed information about it along with the pictures uploaded for that particular incident. 

After doing the needful (informing municipal corporation to verify and clean the area), admin can change the status of the complaint from “In-progress” to “Acknowledged”. User gets a notification as soon as the status of complaint changes. After getting confirmation of the area getting cleaned, Admin can close the complaint. In the starter kit we have implemented email confirmation system where the admin would receive a notification for change in status of incident, but with small modifications it can be done for Users. For reporting, Users can select the location of the garbage site with the help of maps provided in the application.

**Conclusion**

The application aims to resolve issues like garbage collection and poor sanitation. Poor sanitization is linked to transmission of diseases such as cholera, diarrhea, dysentery, hepatitis A, typhoid and polio and exacerbates stunting. With the help of citizen participation and civic engagement we can help to develop a cleaner and disease free environment.
